
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version
Technology|Will the New Apple iPhone Have a Headphone Jack? Rumormongers Say It Won’t

    Share
    Tweet
    Email
    More
    Save

        Young Blacks Voice Skepticism on Hillary Clinton, Worrying Democrats
        Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton Gear Up for a Busy Labor Day
        Play Video
        Donald Trump, Changing His Mind
        Play Video
        U.S.-Russia Talks on Syria Cease-Fire Stall at G-20
        Obama Plays Down Confrontation With China Over His Plane’s Stairs
        White House Letter
        Lucrative Book Deals Might Finance the Obamas’ Post-White...
        Sidebar
        Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan Muse Over a Cookie-Cutter Supreme...
        ‘I’ve Become a Racist’: Migrant Wave Unleashes Danish Tensions Over Identity
        Well
        An Easy Way to Stay Cool During Hot Weather Exercise
        The New Health Care
        You Probably Don’t Need Dental X-Rays Every Year
        Will the New Apple iPhone Have a Headphone Jack? Rumormongers Say It Won’t
        Mediator
        Yes, the News Can Survive the Newspaper
        2 Killed at J’ouvert Celebration in Brooklyn
        Play Video
        Bombings at Afghan Defense Ministry Kill at Least 20 in Kabul
        Play Video
        Merkel Vows to Stay on Course Despite German Election Setback
        Hermine Swirls Off East Coast, but Threat Eases
        Play Video
        South Sudan to Allow More U.N. Peacekeepers, but Force Will Be No ‘Panacea’
        First Words
        America Is Safer Than It Used to Be. So Why Do We Still Have Calls for ‘Law...
        Perfect Strangers
        Perfect Strangers: When Dick Cavett Met Seth Meyers
        On Tennis
        Venus Williams Seeks Perfection, in Lieu of the Spotlight
    Loading...

Technology
Will the New Apple iPhone Have a Headphone Jack? Rumormongers Say It Won’t

By DAVID STREITFELDSEPT. 5, 2016
Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

    Share
    Tweet
    Email
    More
    Save

Photo
Credit Minh Uong/The New York Times

SAN FRANCISCO — If Apple had its way, this week would play out like Christmas for 5-year-olds. First, unbelievable anticipation. Then, great surprise. At the end, immense satisfaction.

When the latest iPhone is unveiled here on Wednesday in a 7,000-seat auditorium, it probably will instead be more like Christmas for a sneaky 10-year-old who long ago peeked at his present. Thanks. That’s it?

Anyone who cares enough about the iPhone to know that a new model is being released this month already knows what it is supposed to be like: a little thinner, a little faster and equipped with superior cameras on the Plus model.

By far the most controversial feature, however, is the one that will be missing: a headphone jack. A standard element of technology that can be traced back to 1878 and the invention of the manual telephone exchange, the jack is apparently going the way of the floppy disk and the folding map. The future will be wireless.

We know about this potential absence thanks to a global information chain, one that shadows the supply and manufacturing chain that produces Apple’s products. The shadow chain is intended to ferret out Apple rumors: promoting them, discussing them and then discussing them some more, long before they become facts.

This rumor mill is both a gift to Apple and a burden, a sign that it has not lost its magic and a warning that everyone is on watch for the moment it does. No other company is tracked quite so relentlessly.

Under its co-founder Steve Jobs, Apple relished its ability to keep news under wraps and went to great lengths — legally and otherwise — to make sure it remained that way. “There is one more thing, and we’ve managed to keep it secret,” Mr. Jobs exulted in 1999 as he introduced iMacs in colors like blueberry and tangerine. “It’s hard to believe, but we did it.”
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage

    Samsung to Recall 2.5 Million Galaxy Note 7s Over Battery Fires SEPT. 2, 2016
    Farhad’s and Mike’s Week in Tech: What? No More iPhone Headphone Jack? SEPT. 3, 2016
    How Spy Tech Firms Let Governments See Everything on a Smartphone SEPT. 2, 2016
    Ireland to Appeal Tax Ruling in Apple Case SEPT. 2, 2016

It was an ambition that his successor, Timothy D. Cook, underlined at a conference four years ago. “We’re going to double down on secrecy on products,” he said.

Things have not quite worked out that way.

“When Steve Jobs was around, there was still that hope they could surprise you,” said Gene Munster, an Apple analyst. “Today, that hope is largely gone.”

The long road to unraveling this week’s surprises began last November, less than three months after the iPhone 6s had debuted to gangbuster first-weekend sales. The Japanese website Mac Otakara, considered a generally reliable source of information that has ties to the factories manufacturing the phone, wrote about Apple removing the jack in the next iPhone under the heading “rumor.”

For anyone not ready to go wireless, the story said, wired earphones would plug into the iPhone via Apple’s Lightning connector, which is typically used for charging power. Traditional headphones would presumably work through a converter.

This was big. “Headphones are one of the most basic functions, so this is something that’s going to affect users of all kinds,” said Eric Slivka, editor in chief of MacRumors.com. “I immediately knew it would be an extremely controversial topic all the way until launch.”

A post on the MacRumors site, drawing from the Mac Otakara story, included a cautionary note that began, “Should this rumor prove to be true ...” The post received 1,100 comments from Apple aficionados who had no doubt it was and who, in general, did not like the idea of no jack. Cellphones were once like bricks, but losing the jack so the iPhone could be even thinner was felt by some to be a bad bargain.

“Any thinner and I’ll lose it into the time-space continuum forever,” one commenter joked.

MacRumors exists for these kinds of moments. So does AppleInsider, Cult of Mac, 9to5Mac and similar sites in various languages, all of which picked up the news and chewed it over. During the next six weeks, helped along by further stories on Chinese blogs, the mainstream media picked it up as well.

Newsweek, sounding rather overwrought, asked, “Is Apple Ready to Kill the Beloved Headphone Jack?”

A Fast Company article announced that Apple would be dropping the jack — “It’s True,” read the headline — and added that the iPhone would probably support wireless charging and be waterproof.

By early January, emotions were at a fever pitch. An online petition from SumofUs.org, which more than 300,000 people have signed, denounced Apple for creating more electronic waste — presumably, headphones that will no longer work with the iPhone and be thrown out.

Some commentators explained that even if people used adapters with their old headphones, they were gaining things, too. Other commentators noted that people complained that Apple never innovated anymore, and yet here it was innovating, and people were complaining anyway.

Then came the rumor that the headphone jack was not going away after all. The Chinese website Mydrivers.com published a photo of what it said were the innards of the new iPhone with the jack right there. “Has the rumor mill been lying to us?” wondered Cult of Mac. “Surely not!”

Two weeks ago, with the volume of commentary picking up as the big reveal approached, even Apple’s other co-founder, Steve Wozniak, weighed in. “If it’s missing the 3.5-millimeter earphone jack, that’s going to tick off a lot of people,” he told the Australian Financial Review. But he added a conciliatory note: “We’ll see. Apple is good at moving towards the future, and I like to follow that.”

Perhaps it is better to be forewarned about what the future holds rather than be forced to confront it abruptly. “We soften the blow,” said Neil Hughes, managing editor of AppleInsider. “Can you imagine that if no one saw it coming and Apple just dropped this on Wednesday? People would lose their minds.”

Apple, which declined to comment for this article, most likely has a different view. In late 2004, it went after several websites, including AppleInsider, saying that when they posted details about unreleased products, they were publishing stolen property. At first Apple found success in court but the ruling was sharply reversed on appeal. It was ordered to pay $700,000 to cover the sites’ legal fees and generally looked like a bully.

For several years, Apple sold a T-shirt in its Cupertino, Calif., campus store that read, “I visited the Apple campus. But that’s all I am allowed to say.” A recent Apple presentation poked fun at its extensive security measures. But even if the company can now have a laugh or two at its own expense, its philosophy has not changed.

“Do you remember when you were a kid, and Christmas Eve, it was so exciting, you weren’t sure what was going to be downstairs?” Mr. Cook said when asked about the rumored Apple car at the annual shareholders’ meeting last February. “Well, it’s going to be Christmas Eve for a while.”

Apple might be the richest company in the world, and quite possibly the coolest, but feel for it for a moment. It has to keep making the iPhone exciting enough so tens of millions of people immediately buy one. Apple depends on this. Never before has a company so large and influential been tethered to one consumer product.

And that product, which recently celebrated its one-billionth sale, may have already hit saturation. Apple sold 40.4 million iPhones last quarter, a drop from 47.5 million during the same period in 2015. It was the second straight quarter of declines.

“I think we’ve reached peak iPhone,” said Seth Weintraub, of 9to5Mac.

But only for the moment. Even as the Apple faithful wait to see all these rumors confirmed, the scuttlebutt and speculation have started about next year’s model. It will be the iPhone’s 10th anniversary, which means the stakes are going up.

“Apple is hopefully turning on the development afterburners,” Mr. Weintraub said. “We hear it wants the phone to resemble a sleek glass slab. It’s supposed to be a statement, a really big deal.”

Assuming, of course, the rumors are true.
Continue reading the main story
Related Coverage

    Samsung to Recall 2.5 Million Galaxy Note 7s Over Battery Fires SEPT. 2, 2016
    Farhad’s and Mike’s Week in Tech: What? No More iPhone Headphone Jack? SEPT. 3, 2016
    How Spy Tech Firms Let Governments See Everything on a Smartphone SEPT. 2, 2016
    Ireland to Appeal Tax Ruling in Apple Case SEPT. 2, 2016

Trending

    Op-Ed Columnist: Hillary Clinton Gets Gored
    ‘I’ve Become a Racist’: Migrant Wave Unleashes Danish Tensions Over Identity
    Young Blacks Voice Skepticism on Hillary Clinton, Worrying Democrats
    ‘Rolling Coal’ in Diesel Trucks, to Rebel and Provoke
    Will the New Apple iPhone Have a Headphone Jack? Rumormongers Say It...
    Op-Ed Columnist: Donald Trump Does Detroit
    Obama Plays Down Confrontation With China Over His Plane’s Stairs
    The Stone: A Life of Meaning (Reason Not Required)
    On Comedy: A George Carlin Special Too Raw After Sept. 11 Resurfaces Now
    Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton Gear Up for a Busy Labor Day

View More Trending Stories »
What's Next
Loading...

Go to Home Page »
Site Index The New York Times
Site Index Navigation
News

    World
    U.S.
    Politics
    N.Y.
    Business
    Tech
    Science
    Health
    Sports
    Education
    Obituaries
    Today's Paper
    Corrections

Opinion

    Today's Opinion
    Op-Ed Columnists
    Editorials
    Contributing Writers
    Op-Ed Contributors
    Opinionator
    Letters
    Sunday Review
    Taking Note
    Room for Debate
    Public Editor
    Video: Opinion

Arts

    Today's Arts
    Art & Design
    Books
    Dance
    Movies
    Music
    N.Y.C. Events Guide
    Television
    Theater
    Video: Arts

Living

    Automobiles
    Crossword
    Food
    Education
    Fashion & Style
    Health
    Jobs
    Magazine
    N.Y.C. Events Guide
    Real Estate
    T Magazine
    Travel
    Weddings & Celebrations

Listings & More

    Classifieds
    Tools & Services
    Times Topics
    Public Editor
    N.Y.C. Events Guide
    Blogs
    Multimedia
    Photography
    Video
    NYT Store
    Times Journeys
    Subscribe
    Manage My Account

Subscribe

    Home Delivery
    Digital Subscriptions
    Times Insider
    Crossword

    Email Newsletters
    Alerts
    Gift Subscriptions
    Corporate Subscriptions
    Education Rate

    Mobile Applications
    Replica Edition
    International New York Times

Site Information Navigation

    © 2016 The New York Times Company
    Home
    Search
    Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
    Contact Us
    Work With Us
    Advertise
    Your Ad Choices
    Privacy
    Terms of Service
    Terms of Sale

Site Information Navigation

    Site Map
    Help
    Site Feedback
    Subscriptions

Go to the previous story
Go to the next story
